>> Scott Moss: Like I said,
this is the last exercise of today.
So what I wanna do is spend the last
couple of minutes just talking about
next steps, how to take this to
the next level, what to check out next,
how to do further integrations and
like kinda where the community is going.
So what I always like to do is just talk
about some cool packages that kinda relate
to all of this.
So obviously, Mongoose is like
the coolest package in Mongo.
Aside from that, there really isn't
a lot of cool stuff in Mongo.
Mongo is, to be honest, a node.
There's some utility libraries and
stuff that kinda make sense with Mongoose.
But when it comes to kinda
doing everything for you,
Mongoose takes the cake with that.
I can't not think of anything that I
cannot live without when it comes to
Mongoose and
Mongo other that just having Mongoose.
So that's that.
But specifically around helping you
build applications with databases and
specifically Node.js,
there are a lot of other things out there.
So for instance, if you prefer to check
out a different ORM or something,
Waterline.
I don't know why I googled that like it
was gonna show, it did, it's number two,
wow, okay.
Yeah, so Waterline,
I guess actually not that active anymore,
three months ago, but
it used to be a very active package.
It's an ORM that works for every database.
So not just Mongo, but it works for
Postgres, SQL, pretty much everything.
And it kinda uses a Mongoose
like syntax to do queries.
So if you want something a little more
flexible, cuz you're using mini databases,
you just wanna use one ORM,
Waterline's a good one.
There used to be a framework
back in the day called Sails.js.
I don't know if you ever heard of that,
it used Waterline, that's what it used.
The creator created both of them.
>> Speaker 2: So
this works with multiple different,
it complies with different databases.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
it works with multiple database and
it gives you just one, Mongoose-like.
You can see it even has the same syntax,
Organization.Create.
It's literally the same one.
>> Speaker 2: You treat it as one
database, but you have multiples.
I know, not completely.
>> Scott Moss: No, not completely.
Yeah [LAUGH] gotta be legit though.
That's a good idea,
we need to collaborate on that [LAUGH].
I like that.
But yeah, no it doesn't do that.
So yeah, that's one.
Other ones include, I can't really think
of any amazing stuff in the Mongo world.
People don't really make plugins for
Mongoose or Mongo, you kinda just,
they just don't.
You kinda gotta do your own thing.
Other cool stuff with just backends and
stuff in general, so
there's like tons of different backends
as a service that kind of help.
One in particular that's
really cool is called Prisma.
Really good team, really good company.
Why did I Google that, why, why, why?
You never know what you're
gonna get when you Google.
Right now they're talking
about GraphQL and stuff, but
they're actually switching over
to just not just being GraphQL.
But they're really cool,
they're basically like a ORM as a service.
So if you don't want to like
if you're trying to go out,
what does that even mean?
Yeah, it's a new thing,
you got to read the documentation,
but the other really cool highly
recommend checking them out.
It's open source,
you can do a lot of things but
like I said right now it
only works with GraphQL.
So if you're doing GraphQL and
you just want like a free API for
your back-end on your own database,
they're really cool for that.
A really good one is also pashira io.
Really good team out of India and
now they are in the Bay area.
Super smart team,
I talk to the founders all the time.
They're very similar to like Prism and
stuff where they are like
a complete backend as a service.
So they host everything for you.
They connect to your own
Postgres database and do stuff.
Really cool backend stuff.
I cannot think of anything that
stands out from me for Mongoose.
I do not use anything other than Mongoose
when it comes to my applications
for Mongo.
There is nothing else that I ever use.
Actually, there's something that I wanted
to try out, it's called Mongo DB Stitch.
This is really cool, actually.
So this is serverless Mongo and
it's created by the people who made Mongo.
We had to build our own
version of this at my company.
Who here has built an application of
lambdas or service functions before?
Nobody?
Okay, cool so
the way that they work the functions
they're not long lived processes.
They fire then they close and that's it.
So databases really weren't built for
that.
Databases were meant to be on servers
that are open and operating forever.
So they have everything how databases
work for service functions.
This is Mongo's answer to that.
So it's basically like Firebase but Mongo.
That's basically what they're doing.
They're competing with Firebase but
for Mongo.
So you use this on service functions, but
looks like they're shooting for is for
you to use this directly in your app.
So you don't have a server anymore, you
just use Mongo right on your web app or
your mobile app.
And it's very much like Firebase,
you create the database from there.
And the way that works is
because it's all over HTTP.
So but they give you like an API
basically to hit your database,
and your database is on
some server somewhere.
So it's like this new thing of
HTTP based databases, if you will.
There's ton of them.
This is Mongo's version of it.
Seems pretty legit.
If I was going to use
something like Firebase,
I would definitely look
at this as a contender.
But, yeah, it kind of handles a lot
of stuff for you as as far as.
It even has functions that
you can do in the Cloud.
It will do authentication for you.
It will do things like Twilio and Stripe.
Pretty much do a lot of stuff for
you that you don't have to.
So, highly recommend for
you to check it out and
it's obviously built by
a really good company.
Yep, that's all I got for
really cool stuff.
As far as going forward and
what to learn from here,
I highly recommend looking into Mongo 4.
Mongo 4 just got released
like a couple months ago.
Like everybody has been dying for Mongo 4.
I highly recommend checking it out and
seeing what's new with it because
again it made Mongo ACID compliant.
And I think because of that a lot
of things are going to change in
the Mongo world.
If it isn't good already,
it's going to be really good soon.
I highly recommend taking
advantage of that.
So if you're team is
interested in using Mongo but
you're like what about transactions and
ACID compliancy and all that stuff?
Well, it does that now.
So, check it out.
A lot of cool stuff.
No, I don't have any questions.
>> Speaker 3: And pitch your course.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah how
did I forget about that?
I'm like thinking about cool stuff.
I'm not thinking about my course.
And also, yeah, so we did a little bit
of API stuff here at end with Mongo.
I have a course on Frontend Masters.
>> Scott Moss: That talks
about that in more detail so.
>> Scott Moss: I should've
just typed in my name.
Why did I not type my name?
Okay so we have the REST & GraphQL,
API Design in Node,js v2, so
this is like the version two of it.
But basically, I go in a little more
detail about using Express which
is a node API based framework.
And in that course we're also going to be
using Mongo and it clearly says that here.
So you'll be building a REST
application with Express and Mongo and
then I take it to the next level.
And then I show you how to like convert
that REST application to GraphQL.
And the differences between the two,
how they can work side by side,
how they can work on top of each other,
all of the different things.
So you will be touching
the whole spectrum of APIs,
node, and Express,
which is my preferred method.
So a lot of the stuff that I am teaching
in this course is literally the code that
I use every day at my company.
This is why I was so
excited to teach it because I was like,
I just did a whole bunch of code stuff and
I wanna share it with everybody.
So Mark let me teach it and
I appreciate that.
Yeah, so check that out.
That's a really good
next step to go further.
And if you haven't used Node before,
this is your first time using Node,
like I used Mongo today but
I haven't really used Node before.
Then the course I just taught yesterday
is the Intro to Node, check that one out.
It will be ready whenever the team
gets done with it and posting it but
be on the look out for that one.
And that one will give you a really
good introduction into Node in general.
So the only requirement for that is
that you know JavaScript that's it.
If you know JavaScript
you can take that course.
Other than that, small plug here.
Check out my product,
Tipe.io, Manager content,
check out the video,
I think you'll figure out how it works.
Sign up for beta, we'll be releasing soon.
All right, well I appreciate
everybody coming for the course.
And thanks, Mark and
the team for having me.
>> [APPLAUSE]